---
title: Free
date: '2020-06-11T24:00:00.000Z'
image: './resources/kidsseeghosts.jpg'
song: 'oogway - two years'
backgroundColor: 'black'
tags: ["life"]
---
Whoever must play, cannot play - James Carse, Finite and Infinite Games [^1]

**Light Yakuza 0 spoilers ahead, nothing major**

The third chapter of Yakuza 0[^2] is named 'Gilded Cage', the chapter begins as a rich entitled man is causing
trouble in a cabaret, the man thinking he can do anything. The man is interrupted by a young mysterious
man with an eyepatch, he is the manager of the cabaret, the manager handles the situation in an elegant way, he 
plays with the man untill he gets him to admit his wrongs and pay the tab for everyone in the cabaret
that night. 

This scene provoked a sense of admiration in me, the manager looked so nimble and agile, it seemed nothing
could bind him.

Then the cabaret manager is interrupted by another character and we learn that being the manager of the cabaret is a punishment.
The manager aka the protagonist has not choice but to be the manager of the cabaret, to redeem himself for his past wrongs. The mysterious
eye patch man has to make money through the cabaret in order to repay a debt indefinitely.

Reading Finite and Finite Game by James Carse[^1] made me realize I was in a sort of gilded cage too, I made
the choice of going to college (I was strongly encouraged by my parents, but the choice was still mine to make),
this lead up to me accumulating a considerable amount of debt, I looked at college as something I had to go through
in order to live a good life afterwards, I was expecting to be free after college, to truly live the life I always
wanted to live.

Now I'm out of college and I'm currently employed, I feel a bit freer but not much, I still have to work, I have to pay
my debts, actually I guess I have the choice not to pay them and see what happens, but my mind sees the debts as
an obligation, something I must get rid of. I do feel trapped, in a cage, I work my shift and when it's over I'm exhausted, it seems all my productive
energy is going towards work and I can't get out.

I want to live life freely, have enough money to work on what I want to work on, spending money on paying back my debt is what
I have to do right now, but what I actuallly want to do is save my money in order to be able to spend time in the
way I really want to spend it. I love my workplace and the people I work with but as James Carse has said, whoever
must play cannot play, and this is how I feel right now. I have to play and I end up feeling obligated to work,
obligated to perform, it is an obligation not a possibility.

Yet I refuse to see this gilded cage as an end, I refuse to do like I did in college where I saw it as something
I had to go through, something I really wanted to get over with, I don't want to tell myself: "just pay your debt and life is gonna be
fine after". I want life to be good now, and that is a choice I can make right now, I can't always postpone enjoying life to an uncertain future. 
I want to enjoy my time now, be nimble and agile although I'm in a sort of cage,
make the most out of it, life is fragile and I have to enjoy sailing when the sea is still calm.

To making the most out of it.

[^1]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189989.Finite_and_Infinite_Games
[^2]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/638970/Yakuza_0/
